Exercise 5
================

## What is complex contagion and how it’s different from simple contagion?

A “Simple Contagion” describes the process by which an individual
exposure to a single node (person or even a “thing” such as an
advertisement) causes transmission of the contagion from one person (or
thing) to the next. It is also important to note that the “contagion”
doesn’t necessarily mean it is a virus being transmitted, it could also
be information, behaviours or beliefs, which could be positive or
negative.

In complex contagion, the transmission isn’t based on solely coming in
contact with the contagion, it is based on the relative percentage of
“infected” individuals in your immediate network. If this percentage
exceeds the threshold you have to be susceptible to transmission, you
will be “infected”. In this definition, a simple contagion could also be
considered a complex contagion with a threshold of 0%. Due to the fact
that it is based on the relative threshold of individuals in the
immediate network of the node, adding more connections doesn’t
necessarily mean that the contagion will spread better. Careful thought
should be put into the connections between nodes and the starting
point(s) of the contagion to better understand how it will spread
throughout the network, and which individuals will be susceptible or
“immune” (impeded from exceeding their threshold).

## What does complex contagion mean for diffusion of behaviours in organisation?

When considering the role of complex contagion on the diffusion of
behaviours in an organisation, the ultimate goal should be to achieve
what’s called a “Small World Network”. This is achieved when there is an
optimum level of “bonding” and “bridging” in the network. Bonding (also
termed bonding social capital) is the number of connections within a
group, whereas bridging (also called bridging social capital) is the
number of connections between groups. It is crucial to find the optimum
mix of these metrics for several reasons. First, having excessively high
levels of bonding social capital with no bridging social capital can
result in groupthink, where a group of people end up making non-optimal
decisions either due to an urge to conform, or, that alternative
decisions are impossible/infeasible. Conversely, having too few
connections can make it difficult for complex ideas to spread, making it
crucial to find the right balance. From an organisational perspective,
the structure of the communication/contact network should be carefully
considered and optimised, to ensure that there is enough diversity of
groups to spawn new ideas, and enough connections to help these ideas
spread. In this way, organisations can help ensure that the best
decisions are being made.

## How can we use the threshold models to better manage: Prosocial behaviour in organisations, Learning, and Toxic or unproductive behaviours

Considering the threshold models, it may be useful for an organisation
to find a way to estimate the thresholds that each individual (or group
of individuals) within an organisation has for different circumstances.
It is highly likely that the threshold for transmitting behaviours is
different than the threshold for transmitting information. Similarly, it
is highly likely that thresholds will be different for transmitting
toxic behaviours compared with altruistic behaviours. Better
understanding these thresholds in the context of the overarching
organisational structure may better help the organisation reinforce
their structure to ensure that positive behaviours flow more freely, and
negative behaviours find more resistance.
